# int main(int argc, char *argv[])

Where to begin? _Grade_ is (will be) a 2d game engine, created mainly for the
purpose of "I always wanted to do this," written in C and using SDL.  It might
not be much, but that doesn't matter; this'll be the first iteration of
something larger (grade 2?).  It's something that been kicking around in my head
for about 10 years, and why not start now?  I'm as ready as I'll ever be.

## Goal

To create an open/free game engine capable of supporting "real time"
Win/Mac/Linux games.  The engine will consist of platform with an API that
should be allow for the creation of games of through (mostly) platform
independent code.

Core features will include
* 2D Physics (tumbling objects) with interpolated cubic movement
* Hardware accelerated rendering (OpenGL 3.3 or later) module for 2D/3D graphics
* Audio mixing
* Console for debugging
* C API
* Abuse-like example game

Extended features may include
* Scripting language - easy creation of games, and safe execution; and besides,
designing a programming language is another thing I've always wanted to do.
* Platform to download/distribute games (dependent on former)
* Level editor - implementation may be game-dependent

Not supported
* Networking - maybe for a later iteration, but it's a lot to bite off and
chew on for a first iteration, and implementation will likely require
re-writing the physics/movement system.  However, the movement system will be
built around supporting prediction for the sake of easing transition.
* 3D Physics/gameplay - Just to put off learning quaternions for as long as
possible ;)

## Rationales

### Why?

Ever since high-school physics class, I've been thinking about the mechanics
of how to put a physics engine together.  That, and computer graphics are just
really cool.  It's my shit.  I also hope to build experience, as I'm always
looking to develop my skills.

### Why C?

I know it, I don't like C++, there are a lot of libraries, compilers for large
number of platforms, allows me to reduce dependencies (e.g. I don't need
bindings for SDL), I can just straight use it), and it doesn't have a lot of
anti-features.

### Why SDL?

Eases multiplatform development, and provides much of the functionality I need
without imposing many restrictions.

### Why free/OSS?

I don't expect to profit from this, and I want it to be useful to as many people
as possible.  An EULA would just serve as an added dependency, making this
engine as the wrong choice for a number of projects; for that matter, the GPL
would be just as harmful.  I expect to use something like the MIT, BSD, or zlib
license.

### Why multiple platforms?

* Linux - because I like it.
* Windows - so someone might actually play your game.
* Mac - after Linux, pretty much a freebie.

<br>

That's it for now.  Expect more technical and design-oriented posts in the
future.
